Updates Fronius docs adding consumption path (#22320)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/fronius.markdown

## Energy dashboard

Home Assistant's Energy Dashboard expects some sources of data to be configured for it to work properly. They mainly are the energy you get from the grid, the energy you send to the grid, the energy produced by your solar panels and others relative to batteries and devices you can see below.

> The meter integrated with de Fronius can be installed (and configured) in two different positions: _"feed in path"_ (`meter_location` = 0) or _"in consumption path"_ (`meter_location` = 1). In the first case, the meter provides all data you need but, in the second case, it doesn't so you need to calculate some of them by creating some entities in your configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The meter integrated with de Fronius can be installed (and configured) in two different positions: _"feed in path"_ (`meter_location` = 0) or _"in consumption path"_ (`meter_location` = 1). In the first case, the meter provides all data you need but, in the second case, it doesn't so you need to calculate some of them by using helpers.
```

- `Battery systems` aren't supported directly. Use [Template](/integrations/template) to split and invert negative values of `Power battery` entity (from power_flow) for charging power (W) and positive values for discharging power (W). Then use [Riemann sum](/integrations/integration/) to integrate each into energy values (kWh).
- For `Devices` use the Ohmpilots `Energy consumed` entity.

### Consumption path

Recommended energy dashboard configuration for meter location in consumption path (`Meter location: 1`):

This configuration has been possible thanks to [@GianlucaCollot work](https://github.com/GianlucaCollot), honors and credit go to him as I have just reproduced his work and documented it here :)

First you need to create the power entities in your `configuration.yaml`. Make sure to replace the name of the sensor, you may only need to update the IP on the end if it was auto-detected:

```yaml
template:
  - sensor:
    # Positive values are from grid
    - name: "power_bought"
      unit_of_measurement: W
      state: >-
        {{ max(states('sensor.power_grid_fronius_power_flow_0_XXX_XXX_XXX_XXX') | float, 0) }}

>       device_class: power

Reviewer 2: This is a bug IMHO and not a documentable solution.

It is wrapping an existing sensor to solve an issue (as it seems).

Reviewer: The "Power Grid" entity as provided from Fronius API is positive on import and negative on export. Hence the `max(state, 0)` and `max(0- state, 0)` to split it up into two entities - import and export to be used in energy (after integration).

    # Negative values are to grid
    - name: "power_sold"
      unit_of_measurement: W
      state: >-
        {{ max((0 - states('sensor.power_grid_fronius_power_flow_0_XXX_XXX_XXX_XXX') | float), 0) }}
      device_class: power
```

then, you need to create the energy entities that get data from the power ones (also in your `configuration.yaml` file):

```yaml
sensor:
  - platform: integration
    source: sensor.power_sold
    name: energy_sold
    round: 2
    
  - platform: integration
    source: sensor.power_bought
    name: energy_bought
    round: 2

> ```

Reviewer 2: This is not related to this integration and does not belong in this documentation. Instead you could write a note and link to the integration.

Author: These are needed as they are the ones you can select in the Energy Dashboard configuration. No idea why, but it is working that way.

Reviewer 2: Sure, but you can do a lot more with entities. It is not the goal of this page to teach about other integration (like the integration integration).

Thus, this does not belong on this page. Please remove it.

Author: I think our focus is different. I'm writting the docs that my future me, as a user, would like to find to configure it's solar installation in HA. This is a 100% needed part for it to work. If I remove this, I'll leave a documentation that doesn't fully allow the user to get it working.

What do you think? I remove this and then... add some text saying that this should be donde in order for it to work? or do I leave the average user (not interested in the technical parts) alone?

Reviewer: I think you are missing that this document here should *only* be documenting the Fronius integration. 
This does *not* include the `energy` integration which has its own [documentation documents](https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/energy).
And also not Riemann sum and state based template sensors - which also have their own sites. 

It would just add maintenance dept to document all this multiple times.

Author: Then I got it wrong as the original document is based on Fronius integration but also related to configure the data you get from this integration in the energy integration. Using it with the energy integration is 1/3 of the document and is what I found missing here. In fact, the matter of the consumption path VS feed in grid is not touch until the energy integration section.

If this page souldn't include information/examples about the energy integration, the Riemann sum or template sensor, this PR for this problem in detail is totally senseless and it's best to close it.

Now, you only need to configure Energy dashboard's params using the UI (first to values use the newly created entities, other ones are just the same as in the _"feed in path"_ config):

> - For `Grid consumption` use the meters `energy_bough` entity.

Reviewer 2: "Grid consumption" isn't code, and should thus not be code fenced (same applies to a couple of other values below).

Author: Ok, was just to give attention to the field names in the UI.

EDIT: in fact, I was just keeping consistence with previous content in this documentation. Not sure if I should edit it.

Reviewer 2: > Not sure if I should edit it.

🤷 I was reviewing your changes; not the full document.
